Our entire testing pipeline is looking pretty good.
So we're now going to start to move on to the deployment of our application.
The first thing we have to do to deploy our application is choose a hosting provider and create a new
Kubernetes cluster.
So we need to take a look at some of the different providers that are available, evaluate them, and
eventually create a cluster itself.
Before we discuss these providers at all, I do want to mention that a credit card is going to be required
to move forward with one of these hosting providers.
Every single one of them requires you to enter a credit card in order to run any kind of workload.
You will need a credit card, without a doubt.
In total, we're going to have to pay about a dollar or so to get a domain.
We're also going to run or cost about $0.72 notice.
That is sense right there.
It is not $72 per day to run the cluster itself.
Now for the provider that we are going to use, you can find coupon codes online and these coupon codes
are generally worth about $60 or $100 or so.
So at the end of the day, if you create a new account with the provider that we're going to use and
you find a coupon code for it, you should probably be able to walk out of this with only paying $1
for the domain name itself.
And technically the domain name is somewhat optional.
If you do not get the domain name, you will not be able to load up our application inside the browser,
but you will be able to at least deploy it and verify that it is online and running.
You just won't be able to access it in the browser.
Okay.
So with all that in mind, let's take a look at some of the different hosting providers we are going
to have access to.
So we're going to very briefly discuss four different providers on each of these providers.
I really just have two metrics.
The first is the cost to use this provider.
And the cost for each of these and is in terms of month and for each month, I'm assuming that we have
three individual nodes inside of our cluster, so three virtual machines and that each of those has
two gigabytes of RAM and about one CPU.
Some of these providers also have some extra costs associated with them.
And so wherever possible, I included or lumped in some of those costs.
And some of these providers as well.
There is no option to get a VM with two gigabytes of RAM and one CPU.
So I just did my best to kind of round out and figure out something kind of equivalent.
What I'm trying to say here is that you should not use the exact numbers I've quoted in each of these
as gospel or the exact value.
Instead, they are kind of very rough estimates on what we might possibly end up paying.
So with that in mind, let's take a look at our four hosting providers.
The four big names out there right now are Digital Ocean eight, AWS, Google Cloud and Azure.
Reach these.
You can see very easily that digital ocean by far leads on price and AWS.
Google Cloud are way more expensive.
The reason for that is that a US and Google Cloud charged you money just to run a Kubernetes cluster
without any virtual machines inside of it.
So remember, whenever we run Kubernetes, we have what is called the master node or the control plane,
as it's also referred to.
This is a process that evaluates and watches your cluster and make sure that it is doing everything
correctly.
It monitors all the different pods, creates pods, great services, all that kind of good stuff.
AWS and Google Cloud make you pay money just for that control plane.
In total, it is $0.01 per hour and that actually really adds up very quickly, $0.01 per hour.
Let's do the math here.
So $0.01 or something, not $0.01 $0.10.
So point one dollars.
24 hours in a day at times 30 days.
That is $72 a month that you are paying just to make use of eight of us or Google Cloud.
That's a lot of money and that's why it's so much more expensive to make use of eight of us or Google
Cloud for a very small, very simple Kubernetes cluster.
Now personally, I would like to use Google Cloud because it's pretty darn easy to use.
The UI is fantastic, monitoring is really easy and so on, but is a little bit more expensive.
And we've kind of already touched on Google Cloud earlier on inside this course, so we're going to
throw that out as an option.
I also want to mention, as are over here really quickly, not to be totally honest with you, I have
not used Kubernetes with Azure before, so I can't really give you a great opinion.
I have had some great experiences with Azure in the past with non Kubernetes deployments.
Nonetheless, I don't really have professional experience with it, so to be honest, we're not going
to use it inside this course because I can't really do a good job of explaining the pros and cons of
it.
That really leaves digital ocean.
And now from the colors I have here, I bet you can guess which one we're going to use.
We're going to use digital ocean.
I know that many people taking this course would love to see a trust me.
I know.
I know you want to see a s with Kubernetes.
But let me just be really, really honest with you.
This very well might be the first time that you are deploying something with Kubernetes.
And if you are just getting started with Kubernetes, eight of us is almost definitely the worst possible
deployment provider out there.
Almost without a doubt.
With the US.
There is an incredible number of options.
There's an incredible number of setup steps.
There are incredible number of setup screens, a ton of UI, a ton of settings.
All of it is extremely mysterious and all the documentation is rather poor.
In addition, they also provide a Kubernetes offering that is kind of tangled quite a bit with another
product they offer called a gate.
And understanding what FAJ does is its own challenge in its own right.
So if you are getting started with Kubernetes and deployment, I got to be honest with you, AWS is
a really, really bad decision and I really recommend you try out an easier provider first.
Just you understand the general process and then you can go and take a shot at a AWS.
So that is my opinion on AWS.
I'm sure there are people out there who disagree with me.
Maybe they say, Hey, learn the hardest thing first or something like that.
But my opinion is AWS is just a very bad place to get started with Kubernetes.
So as you can imagine, yep, digital ocean.
That's what we're going to use.
It is by far the cheapest.
It's also extremely easy to use, extremely easy.
At some level.
You're not even going to realize that we are running anything with digital ocean.
It's going to feel like you're just accessing a Kubernetes cluster on your local machine.
That's how easy it is going to end up being.
Because we're going to use digital ocean.
Let's go over to the website right now.
We're going to make sure that you have an account and that you get signed up for one hook up billing
and all that kind of stuff.
So inside of a new browser tab, I'm going to navigate to Digital Ocean.
And go ahead and sign up.
And before you sign up, if you want to do it, you can do a quick Google search for something like
digital ocean at coupon code and you probably are going to be able to find a $100 coupon code that essentially
gives you $100 of credit with digital ocean.
So if you want to pause video, go and find a coupon code like that.
Click on it and then sign up for an account through that coupon.
Otherwise, if you already have an account or if you just don't care about coupon code, just go ahead,
create an account.
And eventually.
What we want to see is the main landing dashboard, which is going to look a little something like this.
You might see a whole bunch of welcome screen or something like that.
Basically, it just makes sure you create an account and get signed in as you sign in.
You might be prompted to enter some billing information and if you are, make sure you enter your credit
card number.
In order to run our cluster, you will need a credit card associated with your account.
So go ahead through that signup process.
We're going to pause right here.
And hopefully by the start of the next video, you'll end up at a screen somewhat similar to this right
here.
So I'll see you in just a minute.